11-4D
Multi-appendiged medical droid in the service of Darth Plagueis and Weldon Hord.
2-1B
Medical droid that repairs Luke Skywalker's hand in The Empire Strikes Back, and makes an appearance in the interweaving Tales of the Bounty Hunters.
327-T
A WED-15 Treadwell droid serving the republic. appears in Star Wars: The Clone Wars.
4-LOM
A bounty hunter droid in The Empire Strikes Back. 4-LOM was an ambitious protocol droid who overwrote his own programming to embark on a life of crime. Portrayed by Chris Parsons.[1]
8d8
A torturer droid working for Jabba the Hutt in Return of the Jedi.
8t88
A droid working with Jerec in Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II.
99
A defective Clone trooper who helped the Domino Squad in the Clone Wars.
0-0-0
also known as Triple-Zero, was a protocol droid designed to specialise in etiquette, customs, translation and torture. in Star Wars: Darth Vader
A[edit]
Ask Aak — portrayed by Steven Boyle (Episode II) and Paul Spence (Episode III)
Gran Senator who represented Malastare in the Galactic Senate during the final decade of the Galactic Republic. He was one of Palpatine's loyalists. Appeared in Episodes II and III of the Prequel Trilogy.
Abeloth
A dark side entity, Abeloth began as a mortal woman who came across the immortal Force entities, the Ones, on their mysterious homeworld. Taking on the mantle of the Mother, Abeloth helped the The Father keep the peace between her warring Son and Daughter for many years. However, fearing her own mortality, the Mother bathed in the Pool of Knowledge and drank from the Font of Power, in hopes of remaining with her immortal family. The result was that she became the dark side entity Abeloth. Working with the insectoid Killik race, the Ones worked together to construct Centerpoint Station, which they used to imprison Abeloth on their planet, surrounding it with a cluster of black holes, later known as the Maw. Following this Abeloth's family relocated to the mysterious planet Mortis, leaving her to her lonely prison. Millennia later, following the actions of the Sith Lord Darth Caedus, the Jedi (led by Jedi Grand Master Luke Skywalker) launched an attack on Centerpoint and destroyed the ancient space station. This resulted in the eventual destruction of Sinkhole Station, allowing Abeloth to finally leave her prison. Using her dark side powers, Abeloth possessed the charismatic Senator Rokari Kem, whom she used to assume control of the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances, as well as the Lost Tribe of the Sith (after her murder of Sith Grand Lord Darish Vol). She was eventually destroyed by the combined efforts of Skywalker and his Sith counterpart, Darth Krayt, leader of the One Sith.
Admiral Gial Ackbar — portrayed by Timothy M. Rose and voiced by Erik Bauersfeld
Commands the Rebel fleet in their attack against the second Death Star in Return of the Jedi. Ackbar was a Mon Calamari leader and military commander. Aptly given a name that means "selfless servant," Ackbar devoted himself to the cause of galactic freedom and became the foremost military commander of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, having previously been an Imperial slave, and the later New Republic. He later dies during the New Jedi Order era, during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, but not before masterminding the Ebaq 9 assault that devastated the Yuuzhan Vong fleet and resulted in Warmaster Tsavong Lah's death.
Acros-Krik
Ongree mayor of Uscru Entertainment District on Coruscant. He was seen outside the Outlander Club in Attack of the Clones.
King Adas
King of Korriban during the time of the First Sith Empire. His reign lasted nearly three hundred years.
Ak-Rev
Weequay drum player for the Max Rebo Band in the Special Edition of Return of the Jedi.
Stass Allie — portrayed by Lily Nyamwasa and Nina Fallon
Tholothian Jedi Master and Jedi Council member in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith.
Almec — voiced by Julian Holloway
Mandalorian politician who served as Prime Minister of Mandalore during the Clone Wars. He was a prominent supporter of Satine Kryze and her New Mandalorian government. He was imprisoned for his involvement in an illegal smuggling ring, but was later freed and reinstated as Prime Minister after Darth Maul took over the New Mandalorian capital city of Sundari.
Mas Amedda — portrayed by Jerome Blake and David Bowers
Vice chair of the Galactic Senate.[2] Blake played the character in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Bowers played him in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones, and both actors appeared in the role for Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith.[2]
Amee
Human friend of Anakin Skywalker in The Phantom Menace. Was portrayed by George Lucas's daughter Katie Lucas, credited as Jenna Green.
Padmé Amidala — portrayed by Natalie Portman
Child queen, and later Senator, of Naboo, who marries Anakin Skywalker and dies giving birth to Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Solo.[3]
Darth Andeddu
The self-styled "Immortal God-King of Prakith" who reigned as Dark Lord of the Sith during the Hundred-Year Darkness. He left behind a holocron that supposedly held the secret to immortality.
Nom Anor
A Yuuzhan Vong character prominent throughout The New Jedi Order series of novels, published from 1999 to 2003. He was responsible for half of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion in the Star Wars galaxy. In the latter half of the The New Jedi Order, he became an antihero as he led a heretical movement among his people to take down their ruler, Supreme Overlord Shimrra. By the series's end, having seen to the deaths of Shimrra and his puppet master Onimi, Nom Anor chose death over living in the postwar galaxy.
Bail Antilles
An Alderaanian senator; as he is the father of Breha Antilles, wife to Bail Organa, Antilles could be seen as the grandfather of Leia Organa Solo Sundered Heart owner.[4]
Raymus Antilles — portrayed by Rohan Nichol and Peter Geddis
Captain of the Tantive IV in Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith and Episode IV: A New Hope, and as captain of the Sundered Heart in the game Star Wars: Empire at War. He was choked by Darth Vader in Episode IV. No relation to Wedge Antilles.
Wedge Antilles — portrayed by Denis Lawson and Colin Higgins
A Rebel and New Republic starfighter pilot.[5]
Queen Apailana — portrayed by Keisha Castle-Hughes
Queen of Naboo during the last year of the Clone Wars. She is seen during Padmé's funeral at the end of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. She is later assassinated by Stormtroopers of the Imperial 501st Legion for harboring fugitive Jedi (This is depicted in Star Wars: Battlefront II.)
Commander Appo – portrayed by Temuera Morrison
Clone Commander of the 501st Legion in Revenge of the Sith. Is also known as CC-1119. Killed in Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader.
Passel Argente — portrayed by Steven Boyle (Episode II) and Marty Wetherill (Episode III)
Magistrate of the Corporate Alliance, member of the Separatist Council. He was killed by Darth Vader along with the rest of the Separatist Council in Revenge of the Sith.
Faro Argyus — voiced by James Marsters
Captain of the Senate Commandos who was bribed by Count Dooku to free Viceroy Nute Gunray from Republic captivity.
Seti Ashgad
A hyperdrive engineer working for the Incom Corporation who also served in the Galactic Senate during the days of the Clone Wars. He was known as "The Golden Tempter", and was also known for his extreme ambition and wanted to replace Palpatine as Supreme Chancellor.
Attichitcuk — portrayed by Paul Gale
The father of Chewbacca. He was one of Kashyyyk's prominent chieftains during the final years of the Galactic Republic. He appears as a playable character in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds.
Tavion Axmis
Antagonist in Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy.
Azrakel
Apprentice of Kadann who served the Secret Order of the Empire. Azrakel was known for his disturbing and sadistic penchant for killing. Following the death of Emperor Palpatine, he becomes a mercenary operating in the Outer Rim.
Azzameen Family
Protagonists in the video game Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance, including player character Ace and his father and the family patriarch Tomaas.
B[edit]
B4-D4
The administrative droid that works for Czerka on Telos in the Outer Rim. It is possible to control B4-D4 in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Sith Lords while helping the Ithorians with their restoration project.
Ponda Baba — portrayed by Tommy Ilsley
Aqualish mercenary who attacks Luke Skywalker in A New Hope.[6] When the original Kenner action figure for Baba was released, the then-unnamed alien was called simply "Walrus Man".[6] His proper name (as well as the name of his species) was given in 1989 for his appearance in a Star Wars role-playing game.[6]
Kitster Banai — portrayed by Dhruv Chanchani
Tatooine slave boy who was Anakin Skywalker's childhood best friend. Later in his life he became a majordomo for the Rendala Estate in Mos Espa, and was instrumental in helping Anakin's daughter, Leia Organa, forgive Anakin for his actions as Darth Vader.
Darth Bandon
Apprentice of Darth Malak. Killed by Revan during the events of Knights of the Old Republic.
Cad Bane — voiced by Corey Burton
A ruthless bounty hunter and main antagonist in season 2 of The Clone Wars who appears in Star Wars: The Clone Wars – Republic Heroes.[7]
Darth Bane
Dark Lord of the Sith in the Darth Bane book series. He was responsible regaining the "Rule of Two" that states there shall only ever be two Sith warriors at a time, a Master and an Apprentice, during the Old Republic
Moradmin Bast — portrayed by Leslie Schofield
Imperial general who served aboard the first Death Star; during the space battle above Yavin 4, he informed Grand Moff Tarkin that there was a danger posed by the Rebels' attack and suggested that they standby for evacuation, only to be rebuked by an overconfident Tarkin in A New Hope.
BB-8
— An astromech droid with a domed head, with the bulk of its body made up of a mostly white ball, painted with silver and orange markings and a round red lighted eye similar to R2-D2. BB-8 rolls on it’s ball body in any direction while the domed head stays in place but can pivot 360 degrees. The movie debut of the droid will be in Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens.
Beed — voiced by Scott Capurro
The second head of the male Troig in The Phantom Menace who commentates for the Boonta Eve Classic.
Garm Bel Iblis
A Republic senator and initial member of the Rebel Alliance.[8]
Sio Bibble — portrayed by Oliver Ford Davies
Governor of Naboo in the prequel trilogy.[9]
Depa Billaba — portrayed by Dipika O'Neill Joti
Jedi Master on the Jedi High Council in The Phantom Menace. Was sent to Haruun Kal by the council. She fell to the dark side and fell into a coma,[10] but was rumored to have recovered to become the master of Kanan Jarrus.
Jar Jar Binks — portrayed by Ahmed Best
Helpless but good-natured Gungan throughout the prequel trilogy. Also known to be clumsy, Jar Jar Binks is always causing trouble and he talks a lot. When Qui-Gon Jinn saved Jar Jar Binks, Jar Jar Binks journeyed with them to the Republic.[11]
Deliah Blue
A companion of Cade Skywalker and Jariah Syn during the Sith-Imperial War in the Legacy comic series.
Blue Max
Droid that is part of Han Solo's crew in The Han Solo Adventures by Brian Daley.[12]
Commander Bly
A clone commander who led the 327th Star Corps under Jedi General Aayla Secura in Star Wars: The Clone Wars and in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith. When Order 66 was issued, Bly executed Secura on Felucia.
Bossk — portrayed by Alan Harris, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker (The Clone Wars)
A Trandoshan bounty hunter in The Empire Strikes Back.[13] He also appeared in the book Tales of the Bounty Hunters, the books of the Bounty Hunter Wars trilogy, in the story "The Prize Pelt", and in Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption.
Bollux
Droid that is part of Han Solo's crew in The Han Solo Adventures by Brian Daley.[14]
Lux Bonteri — voiced by Jason Spisak
Son of Mina Bonteri and freedom fighter in the Clone Wars.
Mina Bonteri
Mother of Lux Bonteri and separatist senator in the Clone Wars.
Borvo the Hutt — voiced by Clint Bajakian
A Hutt smuggler on Tatooine featured in Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace.
Empatojayos Brand
Ancient Jedi who sacrifices himself willingly to send his eternal soul to the Dark Side, to ensure Palpatine would go as well and can never return in the Star Wars comic book metaseries Dark Empire.
Malcor Brashin — voiced by David Warner
Grand General in the Imperial Army who was heavily involved in the Battles of Tatooine and Yavin 4. He was prominently featured in Star Wars: Force Commander.
Senator Bana Breemu — portrayed by Bai Ling
Representative of the Humbarine sector in the Galactic Senate during the Galactic Republic.
Ezra Bridger — voiced by Taylor Gray
He is a 14-year-old con artist, thief, and pickpocket living on the Outer Rim world of Lothal as the Empire strip mines the resources of his homeworld for Sienar's TIE fighter production.He is able to use the Force, and has used it to get out of certain predicaments. Stealing to survive, he had no real loyalty to anyone until he met the crew of the Ghost. His master is Kanan Jarus.[15]
Noa Briqualon — portrayed by Wilford Brimley
Marooned on Endor in Ewoks: The Battle for Endor.[16]
Maris Brood — Portrayed by Adrienne Wilkinson
Jedi in The Force Unleashed who later turns to the dark side. Starkiller spares her life on Felucia.[17]
Sora Bulq
Weequay Jedi Master and friend of Mace Windu who was turned to the Dark Side by Count Dooku. He is later killed by Quinlan Vos on Saleucami. Sora Bulq was present at the Battle of Geonosis in Attack of the Clones, where he wielded a blue lightsaber.
C[edit]
C-3PO — portrayed by Anthony Daniels
Protocol droid who appears throughout the Star Wars films and Expanded Universe.[18]
Darth Caedus
Sith Lord born as Jacen Solo, the oldest son of Han Solo and Leia Organa Solo and Jaina Solo's twin brother. Jacen was a hero of the Yuuzhan Vong War, having personally ended it by killing their true Supreme Overlord Onimi, but years later became the evil Sith Lord Caedus. His actions as a Sith during the Second Galactic Civil War forced his sister, Jaina, to kill him.
Lando Calrissian — portrayed by Billy Dee Williams
Old friend of Han Solo. Businessman and scoundrel who leads the Rebels' space attack against the Death Star in Return of the Jedi.[19] He eventually resigns his military commission and returns to being a businessman.[19]
Yomin Carr
A Yuuzhan Vong character who served as one of the antagonists in the first novel of The New Jedi Order series, Vector Prime. He was killed in combat by Mara Jade Skywalker.
CB-99
Protocol droid Jabba the Hutt used to keep his will. After his death shortly before the Battle of Endor, Zorba the Hutt, Jabba's father, reclaimed Jabba's will and everything he owned through the droid. He was first featured in the novel Zorba the Hutt's Revenge.
Joruus C'baoth
Insane clone of Jedi master Jorus C'baoth and an antagonist in Timothy Zahn's Thrawn trilogy.[20] Zahn originally conceived the character as an insane clone of Obi-Wan Kenobi.[20] UGO Network's Adam Rosenburg listed Joruus as the 4th worst Star Wars Expanded Universe character, heavily criticising the way his name was formed from the character he was cloned from.[21]
Tycho Celchu — voiced by Timothy Omundson (Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike) and Jess Harnell (Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast)
TIE fighter pilot who defected to the Rebel Alliance and became a member of Rogue Squadron, and later became a general of the New Republic. He is a central character in Michael A. Stackpole's X-wing series of books.
Kadlah Cha
A minor Yuuzhan Vong character who was quickly killed off in Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream, a novel in The New Jedi Order.
Wyrpuuk Cha
A minor Yuuzhan Vong character who was quickly killed off in Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream, a novel in The New Jedi Order.
Charal
Force-wielding antagonist in Battle for Endor.[22]
Chewbacca — portrayed by Peter Mayhew
Han Solo's partner and co-pilot of the Millennium Falcon.[23] He would go on to become a hero of the Rebel Alliance and the New Republic. Chewbacca and his wife, Mallatobuck, have a son named Lumpawarrump.[23]
Chine-kal
A minor Yuuzhan Vong character in The New Jedi Order, appearing in the novel Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse; killed by the novel's end.
Chief Chirpa — portrayed by Jane Busby
Chief of the Ewoks on the forest moon of Endor in Return of the Jedi.
Nas Choka
Yuuzhan Vong warmaster who succeeded Tsavong Lah. Surrendered on behalf of the Yuuzhan Vong after Shimrra and Onimi's deaths, ending the conflict.
Shok Choka
A Yuuzhan Vong warrior who appeared in Edge of Victory II: Rebirth, a novel in The New Jedi Order; killed in a duel to the death by Anakin Solo.
Rush Clovis — voiced by Robin Atkin Downes
Senator who represented the planet Scipio in the Galactic Senate, as well as a former love interest of Padmé Amidala. When the Clone Wars broke out he became a delegate of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.
Commander Cody — portrayed by Temuera Morrison
Served directly under Obi-Wan Kenobi in Revenge of the Sith and during the clone wars. He helps him at Utapau against General Grievous then turns on him when Emperor Palpatine orders him to "Execute Order 66". Commander Cody is also featured in the Clone Wars cartoon series.
Darth Cognus
Sith Lord trained by Darth Bane and Darth Zannah. She would later train Darth Millennial.
Captain Jeremoch Colton — portrayed by Jeremy Bulloch
Pilot of the Tantive IV in Revenge of the Sith
Cordé
Padmé Amidala's decoy in Attack of the Clones. She is killed by Zam Wessel in her attempt to assassinate Senator Amidala.
General Airen Cracken
Rebel and New Republic intelligence officer. West End Games Star Wars roleplaying supplements sometimes were published as "Cracken's" guides to their topic.
Cradossk
The father of Bossk who leads the Bounty Hunters' Guild. His death at the hands of Bossk, as depitcted in the novel The Mandalorian Armor, splits the Bounty Hunters' Guild into the Guild Reform Committee and the True Guild.
Salacious B. Crumb — portrayed by Tim Rose and voiced by Mark Dodson
Kowakian monkey-lizard in Jabba the Hutt's court.[24] Rose's antics controlling the Crumb puppet led to an increase in the character's prominence.[24]
Arvel Crynyd — portrayed by Hilton McRae
A-wing pilot who crashes into the Star Dreadnought Executor, causing its fall and destruction on the surface of the Second Death Star, in Return of the Jedi.
D[edit]
Figrin D'an - portrayed by Rick Baker
Leader of the Bith band "Figrin D'an and the Modal Nodes" who first appeared in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope while playing in the Mos Eisley Cantina.
Admiral Natasi Daala
Antagonist introduced in the Jedi Academy trilogy, returning in Darksaber, Planet of Twilight, and Death Star.[25] In the Legacy of the Force series, Daala becomes the chief of state of the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances.
Da'Gara
A Yuuzhan Vong character who served as one of the antagonists in the first of The New Jedi Order novels, Vector Prime. He was killed when the world of Helska IV, which he was on, exploded because of the actions of the New Republic.
Hego Damask
The true name of Darth Plagueis. He also used this as his alias.
Joclad Danva
Human Jedi Knight from Attack of the Clones. Uses a green lightsaber in the Battle of Geonosis, where he is killed.
Biggs Darklighter — portrayed by Garrick Hagon
Luke Skywalker's friend from Tatooine who helps in attacking the Death Star.[26] Biggs' reunion with Luke was cut from the theatrical release of A New Hope but restored for the Special Edition release.[26]
General Oro Dassyne — voiced by Terrence Carson
A Separatist General and an agent of the Corporate Alliance who commanded the CIS' forces on Bomis Koori IV.
Gizor Delso
A Geonosian separatist who survived Darth Vader's slaughter of the remaining separatist leaders and created his own droid army. He had plans to make a new Battle Droid until Imperial Stormtroopers of the 501st Legion raided his factory on Mustafar and destroyed his plans. Gizor never made it off the planet.
Dengar — portrayed by Morris Bush
Corellian bounty hunter who appeared in The Empire Strikes Back.[27]
Bren Derlin — portrayed by John Ratzenberger
Rebel officer in The Empire Strikes Back.[28]
Desann — voiced by Mark Klastorin
Dark Jedi antagonist in Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast.
Darth Desolous
A male Pau'an Dark Lord of the Sith. Once a revered Jedi Master, he loses his proper identity after falling to the dark side of the Force. Appears in the video game Star Wars: The Force Unleashed.
Dewlanna
Female Wookiee who served on Garris Shrike's crew, and later became a surrogate mother to Han Solo.
D'harhan
Niordi bounty hunter who underwent cybernetic enhancement to have his head turned into a laser cannon. Longtime associate and ally of Boba Fett.
Ima-Gun Di — portrayed by Robin Atkin Downes
Jedi Master in Star Wars: The Clone Wars.
Orgus Din - voiced by Robert Pine
Jedi who served as the master of the Hero of Tython during the Jedi prologue in Star Wars: The Old Republic. He was also the former master of Bengel Morr, the leader of the Flesh Raiders.
Grand Moff Vilim Disra
Imperial antagonist in the Hand of Thrawn duology and in the novel Allegiance.
Teneniel Djo
Witch of Dathomir appearing in The Courtship of Princess Leia. Married to Isolder, mother of Tenel Ka.
Lott Dod — portrayed by Silas Carson and voiced by Toby Longworth (Episode I) and Gideon Emery (The Clone Wars)
Neimoidian senator of the Trade Federation, representing the trade conglomerate's interests in the Galactic Senate.
Jan Dodonna — portrayed by Alex McCrindle
Rebel general who plans the starfighter attack on the first Death Star,[29] and the first character to utter the phrase, "May the Force be with you"
Daultay Dofine — portrayed by Alan Ruscoe and voiced by Chris Sanders
Commander of the Trade Federation's droid control ship in The Phantom Menace. He was killed when Anakin destroyed the ship.
Count Dooku — portrayed by Christopher Lee
Separatist leader and Sith apprentice also known as Darth Tyranus.[30] Dooku severs Anakin Skywalker's right forearm in Attack of the Clones, and Skywalker kills Dooku in Revenge of the Sith by severing his head—AFTER severing both of Dooku's hands at the wrist—in return.[30]
Commander Doom
Served under Jedi Tiplar and Tiplee, Fought in the battle of Ringo Vinda
Dormé — portrayed by Rose Byrne
The handmaiden to Senator Padmé Amidala, in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones.[31]
Cin Drallig — portrayed by Nick Gillard
Jedi Master who served as the battlemaster of the Jedi Temple in the final days of the Clone Wars. He was killed by Darth Vader during the siege of the temple in Revenge of the Sith.
Hiram Drayson
Chandrilan military officer who lead the Chandrila Defense Fleet. He later became a senior officer in the New Republic Navy as commander of the Home Guard Fleet.
Droidbait CT-00-2010
Clone trooper and member of domino squad. Acquired his nickname because he was always getting shot by training droids. Was stationed on a remote listening post on the Rishi moon. Was killed there by confederate commando droids.
Grand Moff Dunhausen
A high-ranking Imperial officer and member of the Central Committee of Grand Moffs. Dunhausen is predominantly known for two things: his scheming nature and for always wearing a pair of blaster-shaped earrings. He owns the droid 3B6-RA-7. He is first featured in the novel The Glove of Darth Vader.
Captain Dunwell
Assists Trioculus in his search for Darth Vader's glove. Killed after his submarine explodes. First featured in the novel The Glove of Darth Vader.
Lok Durd — voiced by George Takei
Neimoidian weapon designer who served as a Separatist General; developed an experimental defoliator to be used by the CIS.[citation needed]
Durge — voiced by Daran Norris
A Gen'Dai bounty hunter, Durge is one of the few violent members of his kind. As depicted in the Clone Wars mini series, Durge confronted Obi-Wan Kenobi on Muunilinst before being defeated by the Jedi.[32]
Kyp Durron
Jedi Master who first appears in Kevin J. Anderson's Jedi Academy Trilogy.[33]
E[edit]
Echo (CT-21-0408) — voiced by Dee Bradley Baker
Clone trooper of the 501st Legion. He later was promoted to the rank or Advanced Recon Commando and was thought to have died on the planet lola sayu. One of the show's creators posted on Twitter "I know he (Echo) meant a lot to some of you. Echo is alive.
Captain Juno Eclipse — voiced by Nathalie Cox
Female Imperial pilot and Galen Marek's love interest in The Force Unleashed.[34]
Bant Eerin
Female Mon Calamari childhood friend of Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Ebe Endocott
Of Triffian species, Ebe is one of the eighteen podracers seen in Episode I.
Eirtaé — portrayed by Friday "Liz" Wilson
Handmaiden to Queen Amidala seen in The Phantom Menace.
Elan
A Yuuzhan Vong in the novel Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial. She was sent by her superiors to infiltrate the Jedi Order and kill as many of them as possible with a deadly virus. Her efforts were foiled by Han Solo and she died as a result.
Embo — voiced by Dave Filoni
A bounty hunter that works for either side, but has a sense of honor. His weapons include a bowcaster and his hat which he uses as a boomerang.
Emperor's Royal Guards
Elite, red-helmeted and red-cloaked stormtroopers who serve as Emperor Palpatine's personal bodyguards.
Emtrey
An M-3PO series droid that serves Rogue Squadron in the X-Wing book series.
EV-9D9 — voiced by Richard Marquand
Droid working in Jabba the Hutt's palace in Return of the Jedi.[35]
Morallo Eval — voiced by Stephen Stanton
A Separatist Phindian who came up with a plan to kidnap Chancellor Palpatine. He killed his mother as a child because he was bored.
Doctor Cornelius Evazan  – portrayed by Alfie Curtis
Character who antagonizes Luke Skywalker in the Mos Eisley cantina in A New Hope.[36] Claims to have the death sentence on twelve systems.
F[edit]
FX-7
Medical droid assistant to 2-1B on Hoth.
Keyan Farlander
Rebel Alliance starfighter pilot and Jedi. The Farlander Papers enclosed with some copies of the Star Wars: X-Wing provided backstory to the game's unnamed protagonist.
Onaconda Farr — voiced by Dee Bradley Baker
Senator from Rodia initially aligned with the CIS, but later returned to the Republic.
Jagged Fel
Starfighter pilot and Baron Soontir Fel's son, appearing in the New Jedi Order and Legacy of the Force series. Engaged then married to Jaina Solo in the Fate of the Jedi series.
Roan Fel
Deposed galactic emperor in the Star Wars: Legacy series.
Baron Soontir Fel
Elite Imperial starfighter pilot in Dark Horse Comics and the New Jedi Order series. Brother-in-law to Commander Wedge Antilles. Father of Jagged Fel.
Davin Felth
Imperial stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the escape pod that the Empire is looking for contained droids. He kills his superior officer Mod Terrik after becoming disgusted with the Empire's tyranny, giving the Millennium Falcon the time needed to escape from Tatooine.
Jango Fett — portrayed by Temuera Morrison
Bounty hunter, template for all the clones who made up the Republic's army. Boba Fett's father.[37]
Boba Fett — portrayed by Jeremy Bulloch (V-VI), Daniel Logan (II), and Jason Wingreen (voice, V), Temuera Morrison (voice in the 2004 release of the Original Trilogy)
Clone of Jango Fett raised by Jango on Kamino as his son.[38] Becomes a bounty hunter.[38] He is eaten alive by Jabba the Hutt's Sarlacc, but later escapes.[39]
Borsk Fey'lya
Bothan politician, introduced in the Thrawn trilogy, who rises to become chief of state of the New Republic.[40] He sacrifices his life during the Yuuzhan Vong capture of Coruscant, thereby earning himself a place among the Bothan Martyrs.
Commander Fil
He is Nadar Vebb's Clone Commander from Star Wars: The Clone Wars. He died while trying to kill General Grievous's pet Gor.

Jedi Master Kit Fisto
Kit Fisto — portrayed by Zachariah Jensen and Daniel Zizmor (Attack of the Clones) and Ben Cooke (Revenge of the Sith), voiced by Phil LaMarr (The Clone Wars)
The design of Kit Fisto was first developed as a male Sith concept by concept artist Dermot Power. When the alien Sith apprentice idea was abandoned, Power revisited the tentacle-headed alien as a Jedi, with a less malevolent face, yet still with an imposing presence.[41] He was killed in a duel with Darth Sidious. He has proven to become quite popular with fans, receiving a more prominent role in Star Wars: The Clone Wars and being ranked #41 in IGN's list of Top 100 Star Wars characters. He saved the life of fellow Jedi Aayla Secura and the relationship between the two pushed the boundaries of The Jedi Code. His species is Nautolan.[42]
Fives — voiced by Dee Bradley Baker
Former Arc Trooper and former Clone Trooper he was the only survivor of the Domino Squad. He fought alongside Captain Rex in important and clone based missions. He was the first and only known clone to have discovered Order 66 but he was killed due to his findings by the Sith Lord Darth Sidious
Fode — voiced by Greg Proops
The first head of the two-headed Troig in The Phantom Menace who commentates for the Boonta Eve Classic.
Bib Fortuna — portrayed by Michael Carter and voiced by Erik Bauersfeld
A male Twi'lek from the planet Ryloth who serves as Jabba the Hutt's majordomo in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace and Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi.
Commander Fox
A clone commander who was in charge of the Coruscant Guard in Star Wars: The Clone Wars.
G[edit]
Adi Gallia — portrayed by Gin Clarke
Corellian Jedi master killed by General Grievous in the Star Wars Legends and by Savage Opress in the actual Star Wars Canon. Adi Gallia's former master and cousin, Stass Allie took her place on the Jedi council. Has a blue lightsaber in Star Wars: The Clone Wars, and a red or orange lightsaber in media related to The Phantom Menace.
Ganodi
A Rodian youngling who was among the youngest to pass the gathering.
Gardulla the Hutt — voiced by Nika Futterman (The Clone Wars)
Hutt crime lord who at one point owned Anakin and Shmi Skywalker before losing a podrace bet to Toydarian junk dealer Watto.
Yarna D'al Gargan
Askajian dancer from Jabba the Hutt's palace.
Garindan — portrayed by Sadie Eddon
Also known as Long-Snoot. Is a long-snouted creature who leads Imperial stormtroopers to the Millennium Falcon.[43]
Saw Gerrera
A rebel freedom fighter of the planet Onderon, brother of Steela Gerrera.
Steela Gerrera
Elected leader of rebel freedom fighters of Onderon, sister of Saw Gerrera. She is killed when a droid gunship shoots her off of a cliff.
Mirta Gev
Boba Fett's granddaughter, who first appears in Bloodlines.
Gonk Droid – portrayed by Rusty Goffe
Also known as the "GNK power droid". A boxy, rectangular-shaped droid that walks very slowly. It is literally a bipedal, walking power generator. It is a playable character in the Lego Star Wars series of games and gives ammo to a player in Star Wars Battlefront II.
Commander Gree
A clone commander who is killed by Yoda in Revenge of the Sith during Order 66. He served under Jedi master Luminara Unduli in the Clone Wars.
Greedo – portrayed by Paul Blake and Maria de Aragon (A New Hope), voiced by Tom Kenny (The Clone Wars)
Rodian bounty hunter who serves Jabba the Hutt. Shot and killed by Han Solo at the Mos Eisley Cantina in A New Hope[44]
Janus Greejatus
Longtime friend and associate of Palpatine; served as Palpatine's aide during his time as Senator of Naboo and the Chommell Sector, and replaced him in the position after Palpatine was elected Supreme Chancellor. After being expelled from the Galactic Senate due to questionable practices, Greejatus became Palpatine's advisor. He continued to served in this capacity when the Galactic Empire came to power and Palpatine declared himself Emperor. He served in this capacity well into the Galactic Civil War, and was killed when the second Death Star was destroyed during the Battle of Endor.
Captain Gregor
Was a Republic Commando and was thought to have died in the Battle of Sarrish. He had amnesia and was taken to the world of Abafar to work in a diner. He is later told by Colonel Meebur Gascon that he is a clone trooper. He helps the Colonel and his droids to get off Abafar to save many Republic lives
Falon Grey
Padawan to Master Rahm Kota; two Force-sensitive clones, X1 and X2, were created from his DNA on Kamino.
General Grievous – voiced by Matthew Wood
Cyborg supreme commander of the Separatist droid armies killed by Obi-Wan Kenobi in Revenge of the Sith.[45] Also hunts Jedi.
Gungi
A Wookiee youngling who was among the youngest to pass the Gathering. Gungi uses a wooden lightsaber with a green crystal.
Nute Gunray – portrayed by Silas Carson, voiced by Tom Kenny (The Clone Wars)
Viceroy of the Trade Federation killed by Darth Vader in Revenge of the Sith.[46] Following the release of The Phantom Menace, some critics charged that the mannerisms and voices of a few Star Wars characters represented racial stereotypes. While most of the complaints were focused on Jar Jar Binks, complaints were also made concerning Nute Gunray and the Neimoidians negatively portraying Asian culture by associating what is perceived as "Engrish" accents with the Neimoidian race, known for its greed, cowardice, and connection with the evil Trade Federation.[47] Actor Silas Carson read Nute Gunray's lines based on how they were read by a Thai actor, who pre-recorded Nute Gunray's lines for Carson to mimic.[48]
H[edit]
Rune Haako — portrayed by Jerome Blake/James Taylor (Episode I) and Sandy Thompson (Episode III)
Second in command to Nute Gunray and Settlement Officer of the Trade Federation.[49]
Rako Hardeen — voiced by James Arnold Taylor
Bounty hunter who was hired to kill Obi-Wan Kenobi during the Clone Wars. He is eventually killed by Kenobi, who then assumes his identity in order to uncover a plot to kidnap Chancellor Palpatine.
Harrar
A recurring Yuuzhan Vong character in The New Jedi Order. By the series' end, he betrayed his species's destructive empire and sided with the Galactic Alliance to end their reign of terror.
A'Sharad Hett
A Jedi Master whose father was Sharad Hett another famous Jedi Master. After A'Sharad's father died with his native people (Sand People) he inherited his fathers lightsaber and now uses both his and his fathers.
Hevy — voiced by Dee Bradley Baker
Bold clone who sacrifices himself to save a base on Kamino during the Clone Wars and works with Domino Squad. His nickname was acquired by the fact that he is the one in the squad who carries the heavy guns.
San Hill — voiced by Chris Truswell
Chairman of the Intergalactic Banking Clan, killed by Darth Vader in Revenge of the Sith.[50]
Grand Moff Bertroff Hissa
Leading figure in an attempt to overthrow Ysanne Isard as the head of the Galactic Empire. Hissa founded the Central Committee of Grand Moffs, who installed Trioculus as their figurehead. First appears in the novel The Glove of Darth Vader.
Corran Horn
X-wing pilot and Jedi Master.[51] I, Jedi is narrated from his first-person perspective.[51] Michael Stackpole, who created the character for the X-Wing series, depicts Horn in the Star Wars Customizable Card Game. Married to Mirax Terrik.[51] He appears in several novels in the Yuuzhan Vong War and the Second Galactic War, the latter of which he serves on the Jedi Council.
Huyang — voiced by David Tennant
An architect droid in the service of the Jedi Order. He was stationed on board the Jedi training cruiser Crucible, where he assisted Jedi initiates in constructing their lightsabers. His voice actor, David Tennant, won an Emmy for this role.
I[edit]
IG-88
Bounty hunter introduced in The Empire Strikes Back.[52] Ralph McQuarrie's production sketches show a sleeker design than the droid that appears in The Empire Strikes Back.[52] The term "IG-88" is not its original name: The script calls the character a "chrome war droid", and during production it was called "Phlutdroid".[52] The production puppet consisted of recycled props from A New Hope, including the Mos Eisley Cantina drink dispenser as its head.[52] Destroyed by Dash Rendar in the Shadows of the Empire storyline.
Ikrit
A furry white Jedi Master. He was trained by Yoda, and later saved his planet. He slept several centuries to be awakened by Anakin Solo. Ikrit bears resemblance to a rabbit and red panda. He appears in Junior Jedi Knights and Edge of Victory: Conquest.
Armand Isard
Father of Ysanne Isard. Member of Palpatine's Inner Circle since the Clone Wars, and served as Director of Republic Intelligence. Became Director of Imperial Intelligence after the Empire replaced the Republic. He was later betrayed and executed by either his daughter or Emperor Palpatine — most likely the former.
Ysanne Isard
Former head of Imperial Intelligence and leader of the Empire in the X-Wing book series.[53] She betrayed and executed her own father, Armand. Isard and her clone are killed in Isard's Revenge.
Irek Ismaren
Antagonist in Children of the Jedi and the New Jedi Order's Enemy Lines duology.
Prince Isolder
Character who courts Princess Leia in The Courtship of Princess Leia.[54] Killed by Darth Caedus in Invincible. Married to Teneniel Djo, father of Tenel Ka.
J[edit]
Jabba the Hutt — voiced by Larry Ward and operated by Mike Edmonds, Dave Barclay, Toby Philpott, and John Coppinger, Kevin Michael Richardson (The Clone Wars)
A crime boss employing bounty hunters in The Phantom Menace, The Clone Wars, A New Hope and Return of the Jedi, killed by Leia Organa aboard his sail barge in Return of the Jedi.[55]
Mara Jade Skywalker — portrayed by Shannon McRandle
"Emperor's Hand" to Palpatine during his reign; Luke Skywalker's wife.[56]
Shimrra Jamaane
The Supreme Overlord of the Yuuzhan Vong Empire who turned out to be nothing more than a puppet by the Force-sensitive Vong Shamed One Onimi. By the end of The New Jedi Order, he was killed in combat by Luke Skywalker.
Queen Jamillia — portrayed by Ayesha Dharker
Queen of Naboo succeeding Padmé Amidala.[57]
Wes Janson
A fighter pilot and founding member of the elite Rogue Squadron, who was featured during one scene in The Empire Strikes Back as the gunner for Wedge Antilles' T-47 Snowspeeder. He is also heavily featured in the X-wing Series and is mentioned frequently for his light-hearted, almost childlike demeanor.
Kanan Jarus
Jedi and master of Ezra Bridger and apprentice to Depa Billaba. He carries a blue lightsaber that can be detached. He was uncertain of himself in training his padawan Ezra Bridger. Even he still has things to learn.
Jarael
A young female Arkanian in the comic book series Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
Carnor Jax
Member of the Emperor's Royal Guard who bribed the Emperor's physician to poison Palpatine's clones. Antagonist of the Crimson Empire series.
Jedgar
Apprentice of Kadann who became the leader of the Prophets of the Dark Side after the death of Kadann.
Jek-14
Sith Clone created by Count Dooku. From the Yoda chronicles.
Greeata Jendowanian – portrayed by Celia Fushille
A Rodian backup singer and dancer for the Max Rebo Band in the Special Edition of "Return of the Jedi".
Jerec — portrayed by Christopher Neame
Dark Jedi and main antagonist in Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II.
Moff Jerjerrod — portrayed by Michael Pennington
Commanding officer of the second Death Star.[58]
Commander Jet
The Clone Commander of Ki-Adi-Mundi in The Clone Wars in the episode Landing at point rain.
Dexter Jettster — voiced by Ronald Falk
A four-armed alien that wears a heavily stained apron. He was shot while delivering bantha burgers to the Jedi Temple, as Darth Vader and the 501st Legion were cleansing it. He was a good friend of Obi-Wan's.
Qui-Gon Jinn — portrayed by Liam Neeson
Jedi Master trained by Count Dooku. Trains Obi-Wan Kenobi. Found Anakin Skywalker on Tatooine and vowed to train him but was killed by Darth Maul.[59]
Jubnuk
One of Jabba the Hutt's Gamorrean guards. He was eaten alive by the Rancor.
Bardan Jusik
Jedi Knight who fought in the Clone Wars, later left the Jedi Order to become a medic, and eventually joined the Mandalorians.
K[edit]
Tenel Ka
Daughter of Isolder and Teneniel Djo, Tenel Ka was a childhood friend of Jacen and Jaina Solo at the Jedi Academy. After losing an arm during her Jedi training, Tenel Ka would serve the Jedi Order as a Knight throughout the Yuuzhan Vong War before resigning due to her commitment as the Hapan Queen Mother of the Hapes Consortium. She later became a mother with the birth of Allana, who Jacen Solo fathered. The two had a secret love, due to the Hapan population's hatred for Jedi, and after Jacen turned to the Dark Side and became Darth Caedus, Tenel Ka withdrew Hapes from the Galactic Alliance. After Caedus's defeat, Tenel Ka sent Allana to live with her grandparents, Han and Leia Solo, for her own safety.
Tee Watt Kaa — voiced by George Coe
A Lurmen elder who led his people away from their war-torn homeworld, eventually landing on Maridun during the Clone Wars. He was extremely devoted to the traditions of his people and a strict pacifist. He cared greatly for such ideals, and firmly believed the Republic was no better than the Separatists because the two were equally responsible for the war.
Kadann
Dark Jedi who lead the Prophets of the Dark Side during the reign of the Galactic Empire and served as Palpatine's Supreme Prophet.
Captain Kael — voiced by Bruce Robertson
Captain in the Naboo Royal Security Forces during the invasion of Naboo. Featured in Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo.
Kir Kanos
Anti-hero of the Crimson Empire series.[60] Kir Kanos was chosen by IGN's Jesse Schedeen as the 23rd top Star Wars hero, noting how he could also qualify for a "top villains list".[61]
Admiral Saul Karath
Admiral of the Sith Navy during the Jedi Civil War.
Karina the Great — voiced by Dee Bradley Baker
Queen of Geonosis during the Clone Wars.
Nomen Karr — voiced by Michael Gregory
Jedi who served as Jaesa Willsaam's Jedi Master. He was Darth Baras' personal nemesis and was one of the Jedi Order's most seasoned veterans during the Cold War. He was known to touch the dark side of the Force while within the lines of the Sith Empire, yet remained true to the Jedi Code.
Talon Karrde
Smuggler introduced in Timothy Zahn's Thrawn trilogy.[62]
Jodo Kast
A bounty hunter who wears Mandalorian armor. Is mistaken for, and later killed by, Boba Fett. Adam Rosenburg, from UGO Networks, listed Kast as the 9th worst Star Wars Expanded Universe character, calling him a "Boba Fett wannabee".[21]
Kyle Katarn — portrayed by Jason Court (Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II)
The player's character in the first three Jedi Knight and Dark Forces video games.[63]
King Katuunko — voiced by Brian George
Toydarian monarch who aided the Republic during the Clone Wars. He was killed by Savage Opress after the Battle of Sullust.
Coleman Kcaj
Ongree Jedi Master on the Jedi High Council in Revenge of the Sith.
Obi-Wan Kenobi — portrayed by Alec Guinness and Ewan McGregor (films) and James Arnold Taylor (The Clone Wars)
A wise and skilled Jedi Master who trains Anakin Skywalker and Luke Skywalker. A member of the Jedi Council and one of the Jedi survivors of Order 66. Obi-Wan Kenobi was also a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. Obi-Wan also killed General Grievous and defeated Darth Maul. His master is Qui-Gon Jinn, who was killed by Darth Maul. He was later slain by his old padawan Anakin Skywalker who had become Darth Vader.[64]
Gavar Khai
Sith Saber in the Fate of the Jedi series; Vestara Khai's father.
Vestara Khai
Sith apprentice in the Fate of the Jedi series; love interest of Ben Skywalker.
Ki-Adi-Mundi — portrayed by Silas Carson
Cerean Jedi Master and Jedi Council member in the prequel trilogy.[65] He was one of the leaders of the Jedi strike force sent to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker and Padme Amidala on Geonosis. Killed on Mygeeto during Order 66 by Commander Bacara and his clone troopers.
Klaatu
A species employed as Jabba the Hutt's skiff guards from Return of the Jedi. Klaatu's are green, lizard-like humanoids. Both character was included in trading cards and action figures. The more prominent one who was on one of the smaller skiffs is later given the name Wooof while the other Klatu, seen in a white jump suit in the same scene as Wooof in Return of the Jedi, is never named.
Kleef — voiced by Kristoffer Tabori
Gungan mercenary operating as a member of Chop'aa Notimo's mercenary gang; kidnapped Senator Garm Bel Iblis on Notimo's orders. He was killed by Starkiller in Cloud City.
Ken
The son of Triclops and grandson of Palpatine. Born on Kessel and taken to live in the Lost City of the Jedi underneath Yavin 4. He was found by Luke Skywalker, who then inducted him into the Rebel Alliance. First appears in The Lost City of the Jedi.
Derek "Hobbie" Klivian — portrayed by Richard Oldfield
Rogue Squadron pilot in The Empire Strikes Back.[66]
Agen Kolar — portrayed by Tux Akindoyeni
Zabrak Jedi Master in Attack of the Clones, Revenge of the Sith and the Clone Wars series. Wielded a green lightsaber in Attack of the Clones and a blue one in Revenge of the Sith, where he was on the Jedi High Council until killed by Darth Sidious.
Plo Koon — portrayed by Alan Ruscoe and Matt Sloan (prequel films), and James Arnold Taylor (The Clone Wars)
Kel Dor Jedi Master and Jedi Council member in the prequel trilogy and Expanded Universe. He discovered Togruta Padawan Ahsoka Tano and participated in many battles of the Clone Wars. In Revenge of the Sith, his ship was shot down on the skies of Cato Neimoidia by his own military escort (a squadron of ARC-170 starfighters led by Captain Jag) immediately after they received the infamous order 66 (issued from Coruscant by Palpatine in person).
Jaden Korr — voiced by Phillip Tanzini
Apprentice of Kyle Katarn. Main protagonist of Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy.
General Rahm Kota — voiced by Cully Frederickson
Jedi Master who served as a General during the Clone Wars; managed to survive Order 66 and escape to Nar Shaddaa. In The Force Unleashed, he attacks an Imperial TIE fighter facility with a band of militia. Originally an enemy to Darth Vader's apprentice, Starkiller, but later becomes his mentor. Is also considered a founding member of the Rebel Alliance.
Krayn
Slave-trader who often conducted raids on Tatooine. Killed by Anakin Skywalker on a mission to Nar Shaddaa.
Darth Krayt
The main antagonist of the Star Wars: Legacy comic series. Formerly known as A'Sharad Hett, he served during the Clone Wars. He managed to survive the early stages of the Great Jedi Purge and exiled himself to Tatooine, but fled Tatooine after encountering Obi-Wan Kenobi. He fled to Korriban, where he was trained as a Sith Lord. After several hundred years in an extended periods of stasis, Krayt formed the One Sith and overthrew the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances, forming a new Sith Empire in its place.
General Pong Krell — voiced by Dave Fennoy
A Besalisk Jedi who serves as a temporary commander of the 501st during the Battle of Umbara during the Clone Wars. He hated clones and had secret aspirations to be Count Dooku's new apprentice.
Ludo Kressh
Sith Lord who lived during the Great Hyperspace War. He was Naga Sadow's greatest rival, and fought him for the title of Dark Lord of the Sith following the death of Marka Ragnos.
K'Kruhk — voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson
Whipid Jedi Master who fought during the Clone Wars and survived the Great Jedi Purge. He lived from around the end of the Galactic Republic to the time of the One Sith and the Second Imperial Civil War.
Satine Kryze — voiced by Anna Graves
Duchess of Mandalore who wanted to keep Mandalore out of the Clone Wars. She formed and lead the Council of Neutral Systems as a result.
Exar Kun
Fallen Jedi who establishes a dark side presence on Yavin IV.[67] Exar Kun was a human male Jedi Knight whose quest for forbidden led to his fall to the dark side. Becoming the Dark Lord of the Sith, he led the Brotherhood of the Sith against the Jedi and the Galactic Republic during the Great Sith War. Exar Kun stood out because he was a tall, athletic man with very long, black hair. He sported three parallel claw marks on his right cheeks from Sylvar during a sparring match.
An'ya Kuro
Also known as "the Dark Woman", Kuro was a Jedi Master who fought in the Clone Wars. She was Aurra Sing's Master before Sing left the Jedi to become a bounty hunter, and was also A'Sharad Hett's second Jedi Master. She has the distinction of being the final Jedi killed during the Great Jedi Purge.
L[edit]
Warmaster Tsavong Lah
The first Warmaster during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. Following his demise in the novel Destiny's Way, he was replaced by Nas Choka.[68]
Beru Lars — portrayed by Bonnie Piesse and Shelagh Fraser
Owen Lars' girlfriend in Attack of the Clones then wife in Revenge of the Sith; the two take custody of the infant Luke Skywalker at the end of the latter film.[69] She is killed by stormtroopers in A New Hope.
Cliegg Lars — portrayed by Jack Thompson
Moisture farmer who purchased, then freed and married Shmi Skywalker, becoming the stepfather of Anakin Skywalker, whom he meets only briefly in Attack of the Clones.[70] He loses his leg when pursuing the Sand People who had kidnapped Shmi.[70] The name — and variations of — Cliegg has been in Star Wars drafts since 1974.[70]
Owen Lars — portrayed by Phil Brown and Joel Edgerton
Son of Cliegg Lars and stepbrother of Anakin Skywalker.[71] He and his wife take custody of Luke Skywalker in Revenge of the Sith.[71] He and Beru are killed by stormtroopers in A New Hope. In the novelization, he is curiously referred to as the brother of Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Bevel Lemelisk
Noted engineer and architect who was known particularly for his creation of superweapons; he designed six, five of them for the Galactic Empire, including both the first and the second Death Stars.
Xamuel Lennox — portrayed by John Dicks
Imperial navy captain who served in Darth Vader's Death Squadron as captain of the Star Destroyer Tyrant.
Lobot — portrayed by John Hollis
Lando Calrissian's cyborg aide in The Empire Strikes Back.[72]
Logray — portrayed by Mike Edmonds
An Ewok medicine man.[73]
Lowbacca
Wookiee Jedi Knight and Chewbacca's nephew. UGO Networks listed the character as the 11th worst Expanded Universe character, saying that while they did not have any problems with the character as a whole, his name "has got to go".[21]
Lumiya
Introduced in Marvel's Star Wars comics as a Dark Jedi who serves a foil for Luke Skywalker after the fall of the Empire. She returns in the Legacy of the Force series, where she trains Jacen Solo in the ways of the Sith and turns him to the dark side of the Force.[74]
M[edit]
General Crix Madine — played by Dermot Crowley, Terry McGovern (voice in Star Wars: Rogue Squadron)
Imperial officer who defects to the Rebel Alliance.[75]
Shu Mai
Presidente of the Commerce Guild, member of the Separatist Council. She was killed by Darth Vader on Mustafar along with the rest of the Separatist Council in Revenge of the Sith.
Mako
The first (romanceable) companion in the Bounty Hunter storyline of the MMORPG Star Wars: The Old Republic.
Darth Malak — voiced by Rafael Ferrer
Darth Revan's apprentice; the main antagonist of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic.
Malé-Dee
Senator of Uyter in Revenge of the Sith.[76]
Darth Malgus — voiced by Jamie Glover
A Sith Lord and central character featured in Star Wars The Old Republic.[77]
Mama the Hutt
Ziro the Hutt, Zorba the Hutt, Ebor the Hutt, Pazda the Hutt and Jiliac the Hutt's mother and Jabba the Hutt's grandmother. Ziro and his girlfriend Sy Snootles take Mama's starship. Obi-Wan Kenobi then confronts Mama about the incident. She is Rotta the Huttlet's great grandmother.
Ody Mandrell
Er'Kit podracer who participates in the Boonta Eve Classic podrace in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace.
Galen Marek — portrayed by Samuel Witwer
Darth Vader's secret apprentice, also known as Starkiller, in The Force Unleashed multimedia project. He becomes a Jedi and sacrifices himself in a duel with Palpatine and Darth Vader.[78]
Kento Marek — voiced by Tom Kane
The father of Starkiller. Darth Vader discovers him hiding on Kashyyyk and kills him at the beginning of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, then takes his young son as his secret apprentice.
Darth Marr
A Human male Dark Lord of the Sith who served on the Dark Council of the resurgent Sith Empire during the Great Galactic War, the Cold War, and the Galactic War. He headed the Sphere of Defense of the Empire.
Darth Maul — portrayed by Ray Park and voiced by Peter Serafinowicz
Darth Sidious' apprentice in The Phantom Menace, defeated by Obi-Wan Kenobi. He later returns in The Clone Wars [Sam Witwer] with his kin, Savage Opress, to get revenge on Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Mawhonic
Gran podracer at the Boonta Eve Classic in The Phantom Menace.
Droopy McCool — portrayed by Deep Roy
Member of the Max Rebo Band. He is a Kitonak.
Pharl McQuarrie — portrayed by Ralph McQuarrie
Alliance general that appears in Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back.
MD-5
A medical droid serving Trioculus that first appears in The Glove of Darth Vader.
Lyn Me — portrayed by Dalyn Chew
A Twi'lek backup singer and dancer for the Max Rebo Band in the Special Edition of "Return of the Jedi".
Tion Medon — portrayed by Bruce Spence
Local administrator on Utapau in Revenge of the Sith.[79]
Darth Millennial
A three-eyed mutant Sith Lord who could see into the future. He believed that he was a prophet chosen by the will of the Force and would become the founder of the Prophets of the Dark Side.
General Rom Mohc — voiced by Jack Angel
Creator of the Dark Trooper program in Dark Forces and the game's final boss.
Kasan Moor — voiced by Olivia Hussey
Former commander of the 128th TIE Interceptor Squadron, member of Rogue Squadron. Featured in the video game Star Wars: Rogue Squadron.
Sly Moore — portrayed by Sandi Findlay
One of Palpatine's personal aides.[80]
Morley — voiced by Ben Diskin
A snake-like Anacondan that helped Darth Maul survive on the junk world of Lotho Minor. He leads Savage Opress to his long lost brother.
Bengel Morr — voiced by Victor Slezak
Nautolan Dark Jedi who was originally Orgus Din's Padawan. He was initially thought to have been killed during the Sacking of Coruscant, but instead was left insane. He later becomes the leader of the Flesh Raiders on Tython, and plans to rebuild the Jedi Order into a weapon to destroy the Sith. He serves as the main antagonist of the Hero of Tython's prologue in Star Wars: The Old Republic. He is later cured of his insanity.
Mon Mothma — portrayed by Caroline Blakiston and Genevieve O'Reilly, voiced by Kath Soucie (The Clone Wars), Heather Doerksen (The Yoda Chronicles)
Republic senator; later, co-founder and leader of the Rebel Alliance, appears in JK2.[81]
Admiral Conan Antonio Motti — portrayed by Richard LeParmentier
Officer aboard the Death Star so overconfident in its power that he dared belittle Lord Vader about his faith in the Force, and who was almost choked to death by Vader for that insolence before Grand Moff Tarkin ordered Vader to stop.[82] George Lucas, in a May 1, 2007 appearance on Late Night with Conan O'Brien, gave Motti's full name as "Conan Antonio Motti".
Kud'ar Mub'at
The only known fully developed member of the Assembler species. He served as a go-between and middleman for many of the less legal activities of the galaxy. Prominent character in The Bounty Hunter Wars series.
Karness Muur
One of the very first Sith Lords, a former Jedi who turned to the Dark Side during the Hundred-Year Darkness. He served as the main antagonist of the comic series Vector which spanned Knights of the Old Republic, Dark Times, Rebellion and Legacy. He was the inventor of the Rakghoul Plague.
Grand Moff Muzzer
an Imperial Grand Moff featured in the novel The Glove of Darth Vader. He is shot in the leg by Tibor, Zorba the Hutt's personal bounty hunter, when the Moffship pulls the Zorba Express into the moffship, but survives.
N[edit]
Jobal Naberrie — portrayed by Trisha Noble
Padmé Amidala's mother
Pooja Naberrie - portrayed by Hayley Mooy
Daughter of Sola Naberrie and niece of Padmé Amidala. She replaced Jar Jar Binks as Senator of the Chommell Sector. She was also the cousin of Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa.
Ruwee Naberrie — portrayed by Graeme Blundell
Padmé Amidala's father
Ryoo Naberrie — portrayed by Keira Wingate
Padmé Amidala's niece.
Sola Naberrie — portrayed by Claudia Karvan
Padmé Amidala's older sister
Freedon Nadd
A Jedi turned Sith in the Tales of the Jedi series. He was the main instigator in Exar Kun's fall to the dark side.[83]
Momaw Nadon — operated by Jon Berg and Phil Tippett
Ithorian seen in the Mos Eisley cantina in A New Hope. Named "Hammerhead" during the Kenner action figure runs of the 1970s and 1980s.
Boss Rugor Nass — portrayed by Brian Blessed (Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace), Greg Burson and Kevin Michael Richardson (video games)
Gungan leader in The Phantom Menace, and attends Padmé Amidala's funeral in Revenge of the Sith.[84]
Captain Lorth Needa — portrayed by Michael Culver
Captain of the Star Destroyer Avenger killed by Darth Vader for failing to capture the Millennium Falcon in The Empire Strikes Back.[85]
Queen Neeyutnee — voiced by Jameelah McMillan
Ruler of Naboo during the Clone Wars, succeeding Queen Jamillia.
Darth Nihl
Nagai warlord who became a member of Darth Krayt's One Sith, and later became his chief enforcer. Following Krayt's death and the dissolution of his empire, Nihl assumed leadership of the surviving members of the One Sith.
Darth Nihilus
The main antagonist of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Sith Lords; and the leader of the Sith Triumverate.
Ona Nobis
Sorrusian bounty hunter who primarily captured test subjects for Jenna Zan Arbor so Zan Arbor could conduct her experiments on the Force. She used the alias "Reesa On".
Chop'aa Notimo — voiced by Billy Brown
Mandalorian mercenary and crime lord who orchestrated the kidnapping of Senator Garm Bel Iblis. He was killed by Starkiller in Cloud City.
Jocasta Nu — portrayed by Alethea McGrath
Jedi librarian. Killed by Darth Vader during Order 66.
Po Nudo — portrayed by Paul Nicholson
Aqualish Senator who became a member of the Separatist Council, representing the Hyper-Communications Cartel. He was killed along with the rest of the Separatist Council by Darth Vader on Mustafar in Revenge of the Sith.
Nien Nunb — portrayed by Richard Bonehill (in full body suit) and Mike Quinn (as puppet aboard the Millennium Falcon), voiced by Kipsang Rotich
A Sullustan smuggler, he was Lando Calrissian's co-pilot in Return of the Jedi.[86]
O[edit]
Astri Oddo
Friend of Obi-Wan Kenobi and ally of the Jedi Order. She is a prominent character in all of the Star Wars books written by Jude Watson.
Barriss Offee  — portrayed by Nalini Krishan
Jedi Padawan of Luminara Unduli. She was a friend of Ahsoka Tano, but she betrayed her and orchestrated a terrorist bombing after she became disillusioned with the Jedi Order's wartime policies. Offee was killed by Galle of the 327th Star Corps during Order 66.[87]
Hondo Ohnaka — voiced by Jim Cummings
Leader of a gang of space pirates. Despite being a pirate, Hondo believes in honor; however, he is not above sneaky tactics. He considered his capture and selling of Dooku, Obi-wan and Anakin to the Republic and Sith sides of the war to be "good business", even wishing to be aquantices afterwards; he did seem to be on good terms with Obi-wan and Anakin later. He later helped make Boba give information to the Jedi by explaining that his father Jango would do it because it's honorable. Hondo even faced the Sith Lord Darth Maul, shooting off one of his mechanical legs. When he his men originally betrayed him to work for Maul, Hondo felt proud of them, and betrayed. He is willing to do any kind of job, including the delivery of weapons, and keep his mouth shut, if the price is right.
Ric Olié — portrayed by Ralph Brown
Pilots the queen's ship and an N-1 starfighter in The Phantom Menace.[88]
Ferus Olin
Former Jedi Padawan who joined Obi-Wan Kenobi in searching for any Jedi who survived Order 66 and the subsequent Great Jedi Purge. Main protagonist of Jude Watson's The Last of the Jedi series.
Cal Omas
Politician and leader of the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances in the New Jedi Order and Legacy of the Force series.
Omega Squad
A four-man Republic Commando unit featured in the books Star Wars Republic Commando: Hard Contact and Star Wars Republic Commando: Triple Zero.
Granta Omega
The son of the Dark Jedi Xanatos who wanted revenge on the Jedi Order, blaming them for the death of his father. He became enemies with Obi-Wan Kenobi in particular, battling him multiple times. He is one of the central antagonists of the Jedi Quest book series.
Carth Onasi
Character who appears in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and is referenced in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Sith Lords.
Onimi
Depicted throughout most of the New Jedi Order series as a "shamed one", The Unifying Force reveals that Onimi in fact controls Overload Shimrra. Jacen Solo kills Onimi in the series' final book.
Oola — portrayed by Femi Taylor
Young Twi'lek dancer enslaved by Jabba the Hutt and chained to his throne. Killed by Jabba's Rancor Monster.[89]
Savage Opress — voiced by Clancy Brown
A warrior of the Nightbrother clan on the planet Dathomir, Darth Maul's brother alongside Feral. He is hand picked by Asajj Ventress as part of her scheme to kill Count Dooku for the attempt on her life and is altered by the Nightsisters, becoming more of a berserker on Ventress' call to the point of killing Feral without remorse, Opress manages to become Dooku's new apprentice and learns only a bit in the ways of the Sith before Ventress has him help her fight Dooku, due to his actions under him getting unwanted attention from the Jedi. However, in the heat of the moment and provoked by both of them, Opress tries to kill both Dooku and Ventress before escaping the Jedi and instructed by Mother Talzin to find Maul so he can complete his training to defend himself against the numerous enemies he has made. Finding Maul a shell of his former self on a junk planet, Opress manages to stir up his brother's grudge with Obi-Wan to aid him in his revenge against the Jedi. Later killed by Darth Sidious on Mandalore.
Canderous Ordo — voiced by John Cygan
Mandalorian warrior who fought in the Mandalorian Wars. Later becomes ruler of Mandalore under the name "Mandalore the Preserver". Playable character in both Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and Knights of the Old Republic II – The Sith Lords.
Bail Prestor Organa — portrayed by Jimmy Smits
Leia Organa's adoptive father. He is the Senator of Alderaan and one of the Rebel Alliance's founding members. He was killed in the destruction of Alderaan.[4] Adrian Dunbar portrayed Organa for scenes cut from The Phantom Menace.[4] Smits voiced the character for The Force Unleashed, while Phil LaMarr voices him in Rebels.[90]
Queen Breha Organa
Orrin
General Otto
Admiral Ozzel
Pablo-Jill
Ajunta Pall
Emperor Sheev Palpatine
Captain Panaka
Baron Papanoida
Chi Eekway Papanoida
Paploo
Kazdan Paratus
Jax Pavan
Gilad Pellaeon
Rosh Penin
Sate Pestage
Even Piell
Firmus Piett
Darth Plagueis
Poggle the Lesser
Yarael Poof
Jek Tono Porkins
Nahdonnis Praji
Pugwis 
Ulic Qel-Droma
Ooryl Qrygg
Ben Quadrinaros
Danni Quee
Sarcev Quest
Malavai Quinn
R4-P17
R2-D2 — portrayed by Kenny Baker
R2-Q5
R3-S6
R4-P44
R5-D4
R5-J2
R4-G9
Vuffi Raa
Ahri Raas
Rabé
Marka Ragnos
Qu Rahn
Dak Ralter
Oppo Rancisis
Rappertunie
Max Rebo
Dash Rendar
Gualt Rennow
Ree-Yees
Revan
Captain Rex
General Carlist Rieekan
Rogue Squadron
Rookie One
Rotta the Hutt
Darth Ruin
Rukh
Sabé
Saché
Naga Sadow
Sage-Boneria
Sarkli
Admiral Sarn
Queen Miraj Scintel
Saba Sebatyne
Sebulba
Moff Kohl Seerdon
Zev Senesca
Shedao Shai
Bastila Shan
Satele Shan
Echuu Shen-Jon
Garris Shrike
Darth Sidious
Sifo-Dyas
Aurra Sing
Darth Sion
Kal Skirata
Anakin SkywalkerBen Skywalker
Cade Skywalker
Kol Skywalker
Luke Skywalker
Luuke Skywalker
Shmi Skywalker
Sy Snootles
Osi Sobeck
Anakin Solo
Allana Solo
Han Solo
Jaina Solo
Leia Organa Solo
Thrackan Sal-Solo
Uta S'orn
Starkiller
Galen Marek
Maarek Stele
Captain Ozzik Sturn
Lama Su
Sugi
Nomi Sunrider
Meetra Surik
Gavyn Sykes
Cham Syndulla
Hera Syndulla
Orn Free Taa
Siri Tachi
General Cassio Tagge
Tahl
Darth Talon
Mother Talzin
Wat Tambor
Riff Tamson
Sev'rance Tann
Ahsoka Tano
Tarfful
Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin
Baron Merillion Tarko
Captain Roos Tarpals
TC-14
Teebo
Booster Terrik
Mirax Terrik
Mod Terrik
Tessek
Bria Tharen
Lieutenant Thire
Grand Moff Thistleborn
Grand Admiral Thrawn
Raynar Thul
Shaak Ti
Ace Tiberious
Tibor
Major Grodin Tierce
Rufaan Tigellinus
Saesee Tiin
Tikkes
Meena Tills
Tiplar
Tiplee
Wag TooDarth Traya
Coleman Trebor
Si Treemba
Antinnis Tremayne
Admiral Trench
Triclops
Trioculus
Longo Two-Guns
Tup
Captain Gregar Typho
Darth Tyranus
Luminara Unduli
Odan-Urr
Darth Vader
Finis Valorum
Shado Vao
Walon Vau
Nahdar Vebb
Morlish Veed
General Maximilian Veers
Tahiri Veila
Ailyn Vel
Sintas Vel
Asajj Ventress
Vergere
Vette
Vima-Da-Boda
Dr. Nuvo Vindi
Darth Vitiate
Pre Vizsla
Quinlan Vos
Komari Vosa
WAC-47
Wald
Warlug
Warok
Wicket W. Warrick
Watto
Lieutenant Watts
Taun We
Zam Wesell
Beru Whitesun
Jaesa Willsaam
Mace Windu
Winter
Wittin
Commander Wolffe
Wuher
Darth Wyyrlok
X1
X2
Xanatos
Prince Xizor
Yaddle
Yané
Yoda
Joh Yowza
Wullf Yularen
Zaalbar
Demetrius Zaarin
Jenna Zan Arbor
Tyber Zann
Darth Zannah
Fang Zar
Zekk
Ziro the Hutt
Zorba the Hutt
Warlord Zsinj
Zuckuss
Commodore Zuggs

